In this video we're going to learn about our fourth and final food group storage.
So we've already learned about C-p memory and network and the fourth food group that my VM needs is
storage and we want to bear in mind as we're working our way through these four food groups that this
guest operating system has no idea that it's running within a virtual machine.
This VM has no dedicated physical hardware and that includes a desk or the virtual machine doesn't have
a physical disk that's dedicated to it.
So much like we saw with networking with networking.
We had a virtual Mac with storage virtualization.
We're going to have a virtual scuzzy controller.
And if we think about the way that a physical server works with internal hard drives when the operating
system needs to write some sort of data to disk the operating system generates a scuzzy command if it
needs to read data from disk it generates a scuzzy command and it sends that command to the scuzzy controller
which interfaces with those physical disks.
That's the way that Windows is used to working.
And guess what Windows doesn't know that it's running within a virtual machine here.
So we need to maintain that illusion.
So what we're going to do is provide windows with a virtual scuzzy controller.
We're going to make it feel just like it used to feel when the virtual machine was connected to local
physical disks.
So when Windows needs to carry out some sort of storage command it's going to think I've got a scuzzy
controller let me send that storage command to the scuzzy controller.
And what happens after the fact is the virtual scuzzy controller is actually a virtual The vice.
So essentially what you're doing is you're taking those storage commands and you're giving them to the
hypervisor the virtual machine is sending those storage commands through its virtual scuzzy controller
and they are arriving at the hypervisor.
And now the hypervisor determines what happens to those storage commands from here.
If this virtual machine has its VMT K or virtual disk file on a local disk it will simply send those
storage commands that file on a local disk or maybe we're using a storage array it could be a fiber
channel storage array.
It could be an ethernet based I scuzzy storage array that could be fiber channel over either that it
really doesn't matter.
They all sort of work the same way.
What's really different is the network.
So maybe the hypervisor will send that storage command to let's say it's a fiber channel.
HBO is my storage connection and that storage command will traverse that fiber channel network till
it eventually arrives at the virtual desk.
And you can see I've named some of the files here for that virtual machine.
I've named them according to what they would be named in VM Ware but the concepts remain the same regardless
of the hypervisor your virtual machine is going to have a virtual disk.
And so that's how the scuzzy commands get from your virtual machine to your virtual machines virtual
disk regardless of where that virtual disk is located.
So let's watch our scuzzy command as the Windows virtual machine generates a scuzzy command.
It sends it to the virtual scuzzy controller.
The hypervisor determines the appropriate location for that virtual desk sends it out the storage adapter
and the storage command arrives at the data store and the changes are actually written to the file that
contains the virtual machines virtual desk.
Now one other important concept that I want to talk about here.
One of the big benefits of virtualization is mobility and and we'll get to that as we get further into
this course.
What I mean by mobility.
But just think about a scenario here where we have down here at the bottom.
We'll call this a fiber channel storage array.
And maybe I've just invested in a new I scuzzy storage array.
And please excuse the crudity of my little diagram here.
But I want to use it to illustrate a point I made up here I've got a nice cozy storage array down to
the bottom I've got a Fiber Channel Sorge right.
And maybe I want to take this virtual machine and all of its files and relocate those files to my scuzzy
storage device which is on a different network ethernet network while I can do that right.
And the reason I can do that is because of my hypervisor layer.
So as the scuzzy commands come out of my virtual machine they are received by the hypervisor.
It's it's going to then take those storage commands and do whatever it needs to do with them.
Right so if I've got some other storage adapter here connecting to I scuzzy and I relocate this VMS
files to that other storage array the hypervisor is aware that I've made that change.
And it simply redirects those storage commands to the new location and you can even do this without
any downtime on your virtual machine
so storage virtualization gives us some pretty awesome capabilities.
One other capability that I want to mention want to throw one more scenario out here.
Let's say that we have multiple ESX I host and I now choose to take this Windows VM and relocate the
live state of the VM to another host.
Well that's going to work out just fine too as long as this other host has the ability to connect to
the shared storage my virtual machine will still be able to access its virtual disk and all of the other
critical VM files that it needs.
So this is how storage virtualization and shared storage help us to achieve mobility.
We can take virtual machines move them to different hosts we can move their files from one storage system
to another without any downtime and it's all due to the fact that we have this hypervisor in the middle
interposing itself between the virtual machine and the hardware.
This is where we really start to see what people called decoupling the decoupling aspect means the virtual
machine doesn't have a direct relationship with any hardware.
I can move it from one physical server to another I can move it from one storage system to another.
There's not this tight relationship between virtual machine and specific hardware.
They're decoupled.
And as we move a little bit deeper into the chorus We'll take a closer look at some of those mobility
benefits.